Version: Spring 2018\
EC200 Econometrics and Applications

**Problem Set 4**\

1.  Suppose that $(Y_i,X_i)$ satisfy the three key least squares
    assumptions and, in addition, $u_i$ is $N(0,\sigma^2_u)$ and is
    independent of $X_i$. A sample of size $n = 30$ yields

    $$\begin{aligned}
    \widehat{Y} & = 43.2 + &61.5 X \\
                    & (10.02) & (7.4) \\
                    R^2 = 0.54 & SER = 1.52 &\end{aligned}$$

    where the numbers in parentheses are the homoskedastic-only standard
    errors for the regression coefficients.

    1.  Construct a 95% confidence interval for $\beta_0$.\

    2.  Construct a 90% confidence interval for $\beta_1$.\

    3.  Test $H_0: \beta_1=55$ against $H_1: \beta_1 \neq 55$ at the 5%
        level.\

    4.  Test $H_0: \beta_1=55$ against $H_1: \beta_1 > 55$ at the 5%
        level.\

    5.  Explain briefly why the test of $H_0: \beta_1=55$ against
        $H_1: \beta_1 < 55$ is trivial. You can use a picture if is
        helps make things clearer.\

2.  In the 1980s, Tennessee conducted an experiment in which
    kindergarten students were randomly assigned to "regular" and
    "small" classes and given standardized tests at the end of the year.
    (Regular classes contained approximately 24 students, and small
    classes contained approximately 15 students.)\
    Suppose that, in the population, the standardized tests have a mean
    score of 925 points and a standard deviation of 75 points. Let
    $SmallClass$ be a binary variable equal to 1 if the student is
    assigned to a small class and equal to 0 otherwise. A regression of
    $TestScore$ on $SmallClass$ yields $$\begin{aligned}
    TestScore &= 918.0 + 13.9  &SmallClass\\
            & (1.6) & (2.5)\\
            R^2 = 0.01, & SER = 74.6&\end{aligned}$$

    where the numbers in parentheses are the standard errors for the
    regression coefficients.

    1.  Do small classes improve test scores? By how much? Is the effect
        large? Explain.\

    2.  Is the estimated effect of class size on test scores
        statistically significant? Carry out a test at the 5% level.\

    3.  Do you think that the regression errors are plausibly
        homoskedastic? Explain.\

    4.  $SE(\widehat{\beta_1})$ was computed using the initial formula
        for standard errors (based on equations 5.3 and 5.4 in Stock and
        Watson). Would having heteroskedastic errors and using this
        formula affect the validity of your hypothesis tests? What if
        the errors are actually homoskedastic? Explain.\

3.  Visit the Stock and Watson webpage (here:
    <http://wps.aw.com/aw_stock_ie_3/178/45691/11696959.cw/index.html>)
    and click on the "Additional Empirical Exercises." tab. Complete
    Additional Empirical Exercise 5.3 using the data set
    `CollegeDistance`. Note that you can download this data from the
    Additional Emprical Exercises page.\

4.  Finish Lab 3 - include do-file, log-file, and answers to questions.
